# Project Documentation

This site provides project documentation.
Use the documentation navigation to explore.

## How-To Guide

Many instructions are common to all our projects.

See
[⭐ **Workflow: Apply Example**](https://denisecase.github.io/pro-analytics-02/workflow-b-apply-example-project/)
to get the example projects running on your machine.

## Project Documentation Pages (docs/)

- **Home** - this documentation landing page
- [**Project Instructions**](./project-instructions.md)  - the standard project workflow
- [**Your Files**](./your-files.md) - how to copy the example and create your version
- [**Glossary**](./glossary.md) - project terms and concepts
- [**API**](./api.md) - autogenerated code documentation for the public project interface

## Phase 4. Technical Modification

Describe your small technical modification to the example project.

# Changes Made-
Please refer to data_prep_arnold.py for details on changes.

- On lines 132 and 133, I got rid of sub regions in the regions column like west in south-west.
- Changed line 179 from LOG.info(f"  Customers prepared: {df.shape[0]} rows") to LOG.info(f"  Customers prepared: {after} rows").
- On 167 and 168, made JoinDate column a datetime data-type.
- On lines 228 to 231, I summarized information of the UnitPrice column in the products table.
- On lines 248 to 250, I got rid of product category in the ProductName column.
- On lines 401 to 404, I dropped the CampaignID column.

# Why you chose that change
- I got rid of sub regions because not all rows or instances had sub regions.
- The second changes was for code consistency.
- The third changes was to change the JoinDate to datetime datatype for easy analysis.
- The fourth change was to identify the datatype of the UnitPrice Column of before and after datatype conversion. Information was provide on the number of missing values in the UnitPrice column.
- I got rid of product category in the ProductName Column because there was already a column for product category.
- I dropped the CampaingnID column because it did not link to any external table.

Changes were moderate. I rated it this way because I had some challenges with dropping the CampaignID column. I did not construct that line of code right way and did not assign it back to the dataframe variable.

## Phase 5. Custom Project
My Custom cleaning project made use of the dirty_cafe_sales.csv dataset.This dataset has 10,000 rows and 8 columns.This dataset was plagued with:
- Missing Values.
- Inconsistent datatypes in columns.
- Inconsitent data format in columns.
- Duplicate Values.
- Outliers.

### Cleaning Approach
The following steps were followed to produce a clean dataset:
- Loaded dataset into pandas dataframe.
- Inspect the structure and contents of the dataset.
- Check data for quality issues.(Missing values, duplicate values, outliers and inconsistencies).
- Summarized numerical columns if these columns are already in the right datatype.
- Data cleaning or preparation which involved addressing all the problems identify with the dataset.
- Check data quality once again to make sure changes were effective.
- Summarized numerical columns for clean data.
- Save cleaned data to a csv file.

NOTE: `project.log` contains detailed information on the process.
      `utils_data_log` contains functions and associate comments used in data cleaning.

For the cleaning and preparation step, the following changes were made:
- Capitalized each word in the column name and got rid of any whitespace.
- Dropped duplicate rows.
- Converted invalid words like "error" and "unknown" into missing values.
- Convert columns to appropriate datatype.
-Derived missing values in "Quantity","PricePerUnit","TotalSpent" mathematically from each other. If two or more values was missing in a row for these columns, there was imputation using medians. Refer to the comments of the code for mode information.
-Replaced missing values in categorical columns using mode.
-Dropped rows that we were not able to resolve missing values.

### Conclusion
The result was a csv file containing a dataset of 9540 rows void of any of the problems listed in the introduction.
